( dramatic theme playing )
powering down )
( equipment
Ship is gray,
Captain.
to Decks 4 through 9.
We've cut power
Replicators,
holodecks,
and all other nonessentials
are off-line.
Remaining systems
are operating
at 20 percent
capacity.
you keep us flying?
Tom, how long can
With the deuterium
supply this low,
one-quarter impulse,
even at
we'll be out of gas
inside a week.
redouble your efforts.
Everyone,
for new sources of deuterium.
Keep your eyes open
Tuvok,
I want recommendations
Chakotay,
for further methods
of conservation.
give them a hand in Geophysics,
Harry, you and I will
see if we can't
synthesize
a substitute fuel.
we stay in gray mode.
In the meantime,
If anybody's got any other
ideas, I'm listening.
We could set up
a bicycle
PARIS:
attach a generator, pedal home.
in the mess hall,
why didn't I think of that?
Now,
to take the first shift.
And I volunteer Harry
( scoffs )
( chuckles )
will be extremely limited.
Living space
those personal items
Take only
which are absolutely essential.
Hello, there!
( grunting )
What, may I ask,
is this?
That, Mr. Vulcan,
Selected Works of Jirex.
is the
Only essential items,
Mr. Neelix.
Jirex is essential.
Oh,
He's the greatest writer
in the Talaxian canon.
I never go to sleep
without reading
of his parables.
at least one
A habit you will have
to break,
until we're able to restore
power to crew quarters.
I suppose I can try.
And...these?
neck pains without them.
I-I get terrible
you ask the doctor
I suggest
an anti-inflammatory.
to prescribe
( sighs )
I don't mind roughing it.
Oh, fine.
the blankets.
Mr. Neelix,
No. No, that's where
I draw the line.
My mother knitted
these herself.
I've slept with them
since I was a child.
with standard-issue bedding.
You'll have to make do
But those Starfleet blankets
give me a rash.
you ask the doctor--
Then I suggest
anti-itch cream.
For some
I might as well sleep
in Sickbay!
Thank you, Mr. Vulcan.
You've just
given me an idea.
( tranquil theme playing )
What's going on
here?
I'm working.
You were ordered to shut down
Astrometrics an hour ago.
We can't afford
the power.
it's inefficient.
Seven,
Efficiency is relative,
Commander.
If I shut down
Astrometrics,
I won't be able to scan
for new fuel sources.
your efforts,
I appreciate
conventional scanners until--
but we'll have to use
( console beeping )
( dramatic theme playing )
would not have found this.
Conventional scanners
What?
Highly concentrated
deuterium.
Where?
display source.
Computer,
.4 light-years
A planetoid
present position.
from our
There are dense pockets
of deuterium
just beneath the surface.
Maybe so, but that's
a demon-class planet.
Demon class?
Starfleet calls it.
That's what
Also known as Class-Y.
a toxic atmosphere
It's got
thermionic radiation.
filled with
are in excess of 500 Kelvins.
Surface temperatures
Just entering a standard orbit
would be suicide.
Our situation is desperate.
True.
desperate circumstances,
When faced with
we must adapt.
( triumphant theme playing )
Captain's log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
I've ordered adaptations
to our shields
the thermionic discharges.
to repel
Hoping that the benefits
will outweigh the risks,
we're now trying
to beam deuterium
the planet's surface.
from beneath
Narrow the annular confinement
beam to .47 terahertz.
Ready here,
Captain.
Stand by.
additional power you can
Harry, shunt whatever
to the containment field.
I don't want any of those
atmospheric gases
seeping in.
[RUMBLE]
KIM: Aye, Captain.
has struck the forward shields.
A thermionic discharge
They're holding.
before you tell me otherwise.
Let's get this over with
Seven, do it.
Energize.
( beeping )
Transport in progress.
Shields are weakening.
I'm reading an overload
in the pattern buffers.
Abort transport.
not responding!
Controls
Get out of there now.
the Transporter Room
Computer, seal off
and erect a level-10
containment field.
Containment field established.
COMPUTER:
( sighs )
Nozawa and Seven of Nine
The good news is
have both been treated and
released from Sickbay,
and the planetary gases
have been expelled
transporter room.
from the
And the bad news?
The transporters
are off-line.
It'll take days before
they're back again.
energy on a course change,
Great. We lose valuable
for our trouble
and all we get
downed system.
is another
to collect the deuterium?
Can we send a probe
It would incinerate
within seconds
the upper atmosphere.
of entering
any other options.
Then I don't see
on our original course.
Tom, put us back
One-quarter
impulse.
maybe I can help.
Captain,
Harry, the bicycle thing
was just a joke.
Tuvok's shield modifications
I've been thinking. With
to an environmental suit,
and a few tweaks
I could take a shuttle
to the surface
and mine the deuterium
from there.
that there is no environment
Need I remind you, Ensign,
less hospitable to humanoid life
than a Class-Y.
you needn't remind me.
Actually, Tuvok, no,
What's the
alternative?
Resume course, creep along
at quarter-impulse,
hoping we'll find fuel before
we end up dead in the water?
We've got deuterium
within arm's reach.
the opportunity slip away
We can't let
He's got a point.
without at least trying.
to communicate with us
You wouldn't be able
if you got in trouble. And until
we can get transporters back,
we couldn't beam you out.
modifications,
Even with
TUVOK:
your suit began to corrode.
it wouldn't be long before
could kill you within minutes.
Exposure to that atmosphere
I know the risks.
I'd never let you go alone.
Even if I agreed,
That's why I'm volunteering
Of course not.
here to go with me.
my good buddy Tom
( dramatic theme playing )
You were pretty forceful
in there.
So?
I don't think
I've ever seen you
that assertive
in a staff meeting
before.
You must be bucking
for a promotion.
I had an idea and I spoke up,
that's all.
It was more than that.
Oh, no, no, no.
You put Tuvok
in his place,
right in front
of everybody.
the obvious again.
He was stating
Talking down to me
like I didn't
know anything about
demon-class planets?
criticizing you.
Oh, I am not
nobody enjoys seeing
Believe me,
the Vulcan master put down
a peg more than I do.
I was just surprised,
that's all.
Why?
It didn't seem
like you.
( door beeping )
Good.
Cargo Bay 2.
You trying to change
your squeaky-clean image
or something?
Not exactly.
What, then?
How do I explain this?
( sighs )
came on board Voyager,
When I first
I was pretty green,
right?
( inhales )
almost fluorescent green,
A deep,
if I remember correctly.
I was young, inexperienced,
and I acted like it.
Nervous about giving my opinion,
hesitant to make suggestions.
kept my mouth shut,
So I usually just
and I behaved that way
for so long,
it became a habit.
But,
in the last four years,
a lot has happened.
I've fought the Borg,
been transformed into
an alien,
helped defeat the Hirogen.
come back from the dead.
Hell, I've even
It's been a wild ride.
( chuckles quietly )
I woke up the other morning,
and it suddenly hit me.
of experience now,
I've got a lot
so why should I
be afraid
to take the initiative
or voice my ideas?
( door opens )
Good for you, Harry.
But...
do me a favor.
The next time you try
to assert yourself,
out of it.
leave me
hot weather.
I hate
we can cut some holes
Don't worry,
environmental suits,
in the
ventilation going.
get some
busy improving yourself,
Harry, while you're
you might try working on
your sense of humor.
My sense of humor?
What about that stupid gag
about the bicycle?
That was funny.
Oh, ho, ho!
No, that was not funny.
KIM:
You think that's humorous?
PARIS:
( dramatic theme playing )
chuckles sarcastically )
( grunts,
I can't thank you enough
on this mission, Harry.
for getting me in
Don't mention it.
to volunteer you to help
Remind me
the next time I have to clean
the warp plasma manifolds.
you don't owe me anything.
Really, Tom,
Oh, but I do.
We've lost attitude control.
( console beeping )
your piloting skills.
Time to show off
Think you can handle it?
Heh, watch me.
Oh, I'll be watching you,
all right.
Switching to manual control.
Just sit back, relax,
and enjoy the ride.
( beeping )
the lower atmosphere,
We're entering
the landing coordinates.
approaching
I'm gonna set us down.
All right.
On my mark.
( dramatic theme playing )
( both grunting )
Mark.
You did that on purpose,
didn't you?
( chuckling )
( beeping )
500 degrees Kelvin.
It's almost
The suits can handle it.
Don't worry.
If not,
human barbecue.
we'll be
traces of deuterium...
I'm picking up
50 meters...
That way.
Let's move.
No sweat.
Lame.
( chuckling )
continues playing )
( dramatic theme
( tricorders beeping )
It's coming from in here.
KIM:
What is it?
PARIS:
metallic compound...
Some kind of
Highly viscous.
readings are right,
And if these
is only 12 degrees?
its temperature
environment?
In this
Whatever this stuff is,
it's packed with liquefied
deuterium.
Ha, ha! Jackpot.
There's another pool
20 meters that way.
go check it out
Why don't you
a few samples here.
while I collect
Right.
I don't know,
Harry...
lounge chairs,
a couple of
beach umbrella,
a big
counteract the chemical burns,
maybe some dermalplast to
ourselves a new vacation spot.
and I think we've found
( scoffs )
That was a little funny.
Aw, come on.
Let me hear you
do better.
( sighs )
( suspenseful theme plays )
Harry?
Harry!
Oh, my God.
( panting )
( grunting )
I know it's hot out,
Harry,
but you picked a lousy time
to go for a swim.
what happened.
I don't know
to collect a sample,
I leaned over
I was pulled in.
and it was like
COMPUTER: Warning. Ensign Kim,
( alarm beeps )
an environmental seal
has been compromised.
Oxygen depletion
in 30 seconds.
( both grunting )
Hang in there,
buddy,
and I'll get you back
to the shuttle.
( grunting )
Have you put on
weight?
PARIS:
out of shape.
You're just
KIM:
COMPUTER: Warning.
( alarm beeps )
Oxygen depletion
in 15 seconds.
I'll make you a deal.
You hold your breath
PARIS:
till we get back
to the shuttle,
and I promise I'll start
exercising every day.
Maybe you should start
with the bicycle.
I thought I told you
to hold your breath.
COMPUTER: Warning.
( alarm beeps )
Oxygen depletion
in five seconds.
( beeping )
Hang in there,
Harry.
We'll make it.
Warning. Lieutenant Paris,
COMPUTER:
an environmental seal
has been compromised.
Oxygen depletion
in 30 seconds.
( grunting )
You gotta be kidding me.
We're in the same boat now,
buddy,
but I'll get us
out of this.
COMPUTER: Warning.
( alarm beeps )
Oxygen depletion
in 15 seconds.
( heavy breathing )
You're right.
to get back in shape.
I definitely need
COMPUTER: Warning.
( alarm beeps )
Oxygen depletion
in five seconds.
( five beeps )
( sustained beep )
Out of the question.
DOCTOR:
Be reasonable, doctor.
NEELIX:
with Commander Chakotay.
Take it up
He's on his way
here right now.
for a couple of days.
But it's only
Just until we get
power back
in the crew quarters.
I suggest you set up camp
in the mess hall.
The mess hall
is full.
supposed to sleep?
Where are we
Anywhere but here.
This is a Sickbay,
not a dormitory.
four empty beds.
But you have
reserved for patients.
Bio-beds,
You don't have
any patients.
I may have one
in a moment,
fellow squatters
if you and your
don't go elsewhere.
You wanted to see me,
doctor?
it's about time.
Oh,
Mr. Neelix is attempting to turn
my Sickbay into a flophouse.
We are short on beds for now.
We've got to adapt.
Aha.
But...what if there's
a medical emergency?
Then Neelix and the others
will get out of the way.
Absolutely.
this isn't just Sickbay.
But...
It's my residence.
the most perfect houseguests.
And we promise to be
can you ask for?
What more
I have a routine.
But...
I'm a night owl.
What if one of them should snore
while I'm listening to Puccini?
strongly about it, doc,
Well, if you feel that
to consider other options.
I suppose we'll have
Thank you,
Commander.
shut down your program
For example, we could
until you're needed.
The Captain asked me
to look for ways
and it would spare you
to conserve power,
from having to listen
to them snore.
Commander Chakotay
to the Bridge.
JANEWAY:
But...
On my way.
( dramatic theme playing )
( door opens, closes )
Make yourselves
at home.
infrared signatures.
Try scanning for
There's too much
interference.
Tom and Harry still aren't back.
CHAKOTAY: What's up?
shuttle down and look for them?
You want me to take another
And risk losing you,
too?
keep waiting
Either we
until we run out
or deuterium
and get trapped in orbit,
or--
We land the ship.
Or?
As you know, Captain,
the landing procedure
requires a significant output
of energy. With shield strength
as low as it is, we can't even
be certain the ship
will survive the descent.
What's the alternative?
the deuterium's down there,
We're up here,
and we're stuck
without it.
We've come this far.
to Engineering.
Janeway
from the nacelles.
Vent all plasma
Transfer any available power
to atmospheric thrusters
to commence landing sequence.
and stand by
Acknowledged, Captain.
B'ELANNA:
Commander Chakotay,
take the com.
Tom's gonna be sorry
he missed this.
( beep )
Code Blue.
Commander Tuvok
to all hands.
Go to blue alert and report
to Code Blue stations.
Atmospheric controls
at standby.
Landing struts
online.
Inertial dampers
at maximum.
All operative decks report
Condition Blue.
Let us down easy,
Commander.
( beeping )
( dramatic theme playing )
a declining glide trajectory.
We're on
150 kilometers.
Altitude
A thermionic discharge.
to 81 percent.
Shields down
Shields at 43 percent.
( rumbling )
I think we're through
Chakotay.
the worst of it.
Almost.
Shields at 22 percent
and falling.
shore them up?
Can you
There's no more available power.
Negative.
Engaging landing struts.
Brace for impact!
continues playing )
( dramatic theme
( sighing ):
Status?
I could give you
a litany
of damaged systems,
Captain,
but suffice it to say,
now that we're down,
going up again soon.
we won't be
Start organizing
repair crews.
Well, that was very good,
Commander.
and find Harry and Tom.
Take an away team
Chakotay!
You're going out to look
for them, aren't you?
That's right.
Take me with you.
I can't do that,
B'Elanna.
to complete repairs.
You're needed here
I've already handed out
assignments.
on top of it.
Vorik's
I wanna help you find them.
Look...
I know you're concerned
about Tom and Harry.
We all are.
safe and sound in no time.
I'll have them back
Don't patronize me.
We both know how dangerous
that environment is.
in serious trouble.
They could be
You're right. I don't know
what we're going to find.
That's why I need
cool heads.
You think I can't
control myself?
I think you're a little
too close to this.
You're damn right
I am.
was missing on this planet,
If someone you loved
out that door, and you know it.
you would be the first one
the clock is ticking.
B'Elanna,
Go back to Engineering,
do your job,
and let me do mine.
Do me a favor.
What?
Take Seven of Nine
with you.
You're recommending her?
You said you needed cool heads,
didn't you?
Nobody's head is cooler
than hers.
( sighs )
All right.
And bring them back safe.
I will.
( dramatic theme playing )
( humming loudly )
Excuse me, doctor.
( singing )
Yes, Mr. Neelix?
We'd like to sleep now,
if you don't mind.
Make yourselves comfortable.
Not at all.
But you seem...
busy.
Oh, don't mind me.
Just going about
my routine.
Sleep away.
( humming )
( singing loudly )
What about
the lights?
What about them?
Could we turn
them off?
to work in the dark, do you?
You don't expect me
Well, no,
but I'll never be able
to fall asleep.
That's not my problem,
is it?
very busy day tomorrow
I've got a very,
is just four hours away.
and my next shift
Perhaps you should've
thought of that
your accommodations.
when choosing
Well,
if we can't sleep,
some other way to pass the time.
I guess we'll just have to find
How about a sing-along?
I could teach you all some
Talaxian rondos,
a Vulcan funeral dirge,
and I know
the classics of Klingon opera.
not to mention
( blurting off-key notes )
Mr. Neelix,
Very well,
Pleasant dreams.
you win.
( tranquil music playing )
Computer, lights off.
( beeping )
( dramatic theme playing )
( tricorder beeping )
( steam hissing )
You're a little jumpy,
aren't you?
I heard something.
I thought
they call it demon-class.
Now you know why
Demon implies
a presence.
This planetoid
is unoccupied.
( beeping )
the shuttlecraft.
I'm picking up
( beeping )
Nobody home.
their environmental suits
It's unlikely
the elements for this long.
were able to survive
I hope you're wrong.
( beeping continues )
( dramatic theme playing )
( steam hissing )
Looks like they went
CHAKOTAY:
this way.
My tricorder isn't picking up
any life signs.
How did you reach
that conclusion?
Footprints.
never assimilated
I guess you
any Indian scouts.
High concentrations
of deuterium...
SEVEN:
Coming from this fluid.
I'll collect a sample.
SEVEN:
Tom and Harry first.
Let's find
the deuterium later.
We'll collect
As you wish.
some shelter inside.
Maybe they found
( crashing )
Commander!
continues playing )
( dramatic theme
( grunting )
Good to see you guys.
( grunts )
the demon planet.
Welcome to
( dramatic theme swells )
( dramatic theme playing )
Our suits were corroding,
our lungs were burning,
we were suffocating!
You know what they say
( chuckles ):
passing before your eyes?
about your life
Well, it's true.
I was finally getting
past puberty
I lost consciousness.
when suddenly,
I don't know how long
I was out, but...
The next thing I knew,
I was awake,
and...
breathing normally,
And I was
over at Harry.
and I looked
He was breathing
normally too,
with his helmet off,
and-and we just looked
at each other,
heh, and we just
started laughing.
it sounds crazy,
I know
an exhilarating experience.
but it was
His vital signs
are normal.
he has adapted.
Apparently,
Just the same,
we'd better let
the doctor take
a look at you.
to Voyager.
Chakotay
I've already tried that.
can't get out of the caves.
The com signal
when we get back outside.
Then we'll call again
I'm telling you,
Chakotay,
it was an amazing experience.
( laughs )
It-it's like when you're a kid
who's afraid of the water,
and you suddenly realize
that you can swim.
Go ahead.
Take your helmets off.
Try it.
feeling all right,
I'm glad you're
but none of us should
be taking any risks
until we know exactly
what's going on.
a big, tough guy like you
Don't tell me that
is afraid of a little
poisoned atmosphere.
Where's Harry?
He's further inside
the cave.
We found a huge cache
of deuterium.
you two back to the ship.
Let's find it, and get
Whatever you say,
boss,
but I'm telling you, we could
breathe this air forever.
( dramatic theme playing )
( beeping )
Yes.
Lieutenant.
We should have
transporters
within the hour.
back online
Well, that's great,
but right now,
I'm more concerned
with little things,
I don't know,
like, oh,
life support?
say,
Indeed. According
to my calculations,
environmental systems
will cease to function
in two hours.
giving me the weather report.
You say that like you're
the situation is dire,
Well, I agree
will not help matters.
but losing our cool
Losing our cool?
Where did you pick up
that expression?
Mr. Paris.
Well, there's hope
for you yet.
Now,
how about giving me a hand?
( dramatic theme playing )
( beeping )
CHAKOTAY:
Harry.
Commander.
incredible?
Isn't it
That's what I've been
trying to tell them.
Are you feeling okay,
Harry?
Never better. If we could get
some mobile transporters down
here, we could mine enough
deuterium to get us all
the way to the Alpha Quadrant
and back again.
Tom tells me you've already
picked up 20 kilos.
the main systems back online.
That should be enough to get
Let's get back to the ship,
have the doctor take
I'd rather stay here
a look at you.
if it's all the same to you.
and keep working,
It's not.
Heh, really, Commander,
I'm fine.
You should send some more
personnel out to help.
They won't even need
environmental suits.
your enthusiasm,
I appreciate
but we're going back
to Voyager. Now.
It's all right,
Harry.
Once the Doc takes a look at us
and sees we're fine,
we'll get right
back to work.
JANEWAY: Status, Mr. Tuvok.
TUVOK: I've shut down
everywhere but Decks 1 and 5.
life support
extra hour of breathable air.
It should provide us with an
Chakotay to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY:
Janeway here.
We found Tom and Harry.
CHAKOTAY:
day. What about the deuterium?
First good news I've had all
We've got a few kilos.
CHAKOTAY:
We're on our way back
to Voyager now.
What's your position?
JANEWAY:
About two kilometers
from the ship.
CHAKOTAY:
Transporters are coming back on.
Captain...
We should be able
to beam you back
but it may take a few minutes.
from that distance,.
Have the doctor
standing by.
take a look at Tom and Harry.
I think he's gonna want to
( dramatic theme playing )
( snoring )
( mellow theme playing )
Computer,
lights.
illumination.
Maximum
Everybody up.
Rise and shine,
Mr. Neelix.
What's going on?
It's checkout time.
It's the middle
of the night.
knows no time clock.
Medicine
I've got patients
on the way,
and there's no more
room at the inn.
Is somebody sick?
Patients?
I've examined them, now can I?
I can't answer that until
Examine who?
Lieutenant Paris.
Ensign Kim and
Is there anything
I can do to help?
Yes. You and your friends
can vacate the premises.
You heard the doctor!
Right. Move!
This is an emergency
evacuation!
Move! Move!
Move!
Doctor.
Yes.
your hospitality,
Thanks for
and if you ever need
a place to stay,
my door's always open.
( dramatic theme playing )
Energizing.
( beeping )
( Paris & Kim gasping )
Beam Tom and Harry
to Sickbay.
( device whirs )
( gasping )
( coughing continues )
What happened
to them?
As soon as we beamed aboard,
they started suffocating.
Computer, erect a level-7 force
field around bio-beds 1 and 2.
Force field established.
COMPUTER:
What are you doing?
inside the force field
Filling the area
with the atmospheric gases
from the planet.
Try to breathe
normally now.
or you'll hyperventilate.
Easy,
continue gasping )
( Paris & Kim
in and out.
Slowly,
In and out.
Captain's log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
to investigate Tom and Harry
The doctor continues
as serious as it is strange.
whose condition seems
That stuff is in
our blood?
I'm afraid so. From what I can
tell, you've been bioformed.
Bioformed?
Think of it as the opposite
of terraforming.
the environment of a planet
In the same way we adapt
to suit our needs,
this planet...
has adapted you.
How is that possible?
entered your bloodstream
This fluid somehow
and began altering
your physiology
at the cellular level.
to analyze the substance,
I haven't had the time
to have some answers soon.
but I hope
of my own, if you don't mind.
I'd like to run a few tests
Of course.
So, what's our prognosis,
doc?
Well...
you'll be fine.
As long as you keep breathing
the planet's gases.
You mean we have to stay
inside this force field?
it's worse than that.
I'm afraid
The atmosphere of this planet
can't be replicated safely.
Which means...
if we leave...
nothing to breathe.
we'll have
Exactly.
to treat your condition...
Either we find a way
...or you'll have to be
left behind.
( dramatic theme playing )
process be reversed?
Can the bioforming
As it stands,
I don't know enough about
the phenomenon to undo it.
I'll send Chakotay and Seven
back to the surface.
information as they can.
They'll gather as much
B'Elanna and I will start
running tests on this.
the away team, Captain.
Let me go with
I know the terrain.
I can help.
Doctor?
out there than they are in here.
Right now, they're better off
But one of you will
have to remain,
so I can monitor
your condition.
No problem.
I volunteer Tom to stay here
and play guinea pig.
( dramatic theme playing )
Each square kilometer
of this planetoid
SEVEN:
is less appealing
than the last.
it's breathtaking.
I think
Breathtaking?
SEVEN:
Yes.
recent experience
Perhaps your
SEVEN:
your perceptions.
has impaired
I don't think so.
No,
seeing it before.
I wasn't really
Seeing what?
The beauty.
Would you care
to point out an example?
Look over there.
What do you see?
geological formations,
I see monochromatic
dust, haze.
What do you see,
Harry?
those geological formations
To me,
are a dozen shades
of red and gold.
That dust...
it's glowing.
it seems to intensify
And the haze...
the colors.
I'm sorry.
I know it's weird, but I feel
connected to this place.
Connected how?
humanoid life signs.
I'm picking up
Location?
100 meters
this way.
Magnify, factor 10.
JANEWAY:
hydrogen sulfate, dichromates.
Deuterium,
sodium chloride,
Add a little
and it would probably taste
a lot like Neelix's soup.
We should be so lucky.
( chuckling )
Oh, what's this?
Magnify, factor 20.
( beeping )
Captain?
That's a protein molecule.
organic properties.
This fluid has
been treated with the reagents.
Let me see the sample that's
Captain...
Let's get you
to Sickbay.
That might not be necessary.
Wait.
( dramatic theme playing )
( beeping )
( tricorder beeping )
( ominous theme playing )
( repetitive beeping )
Commander!
( ominous theme swells
dramatically )
Janeway to Bridge.
Report.
of the metallic compound
A large pool
beneath the ship.
is forming
We are sinking,
Captain.
Get down to Engineering.
On my way.
We're getting off this planet.
Get thrusters online.
but they're still alive.
I'm not sure how,
CHAKOTAY:
SEVEN: Just barely.
( comlink beeps )
TUVOK: Tuvok to Chakotay.
Go ahead.
The Captain has ordered
an emergency ascent.
TUVOK:
We must bring you back
to the ship.
I've got five to beam back.
CHAKOTAY:
Understood.
We found another Paris and Kim.
Five?
I can't explain it.
Prepare for transport.
I think I can.
Beam us directly
to Sickbay.
No.
I don't wanna go back.
Transporters are still
acting up.
individual locks.
We can't get
We're gonna have to grab you
in a wide beam,
and bring you in
as a group.
Acknowledged.
I belong here.
CHAKOTAY:
Maybe so,
but until we know
what's going on,
you've got to come back
with us to the ship.
( panting )
Harry, no!
( dramatic theme playing )
Four of the away team are
in Sickbay, Captain.
I'm trying to get a lock
on the fifth.
It is Ensign Kim,
one of the Ensigns Kim.
or rather,
continuing to sink.
The ship is
Then there's no time. We've got
to get back into orbit.
or whoever he is, once we're up.
We'll worry about Harry,
Bring antigrav thrusters
online.
Thrusters enabled.
TUVOK:
to flight configuration.
Inertial dampers
Dampers reconfigured.
All stations report ready.
Initiating ascent.
to the thrusters.
I need power
by an electromagnetic force.
We are being restrained
Compensate.
No effect.
Decks 14 and 15
are submerged.
continuing to sink.
The ship is
( dramatic theme playing )
Report.
Thrusters are off-line
due to an overload.
Decks 13 through 15
are submerged.
the hull will begin to corrode.
If we don't lift off soon,
Bridge to Engineering.
Ensign Vorik
here.
I need thrusters back online.
JANEWAY:
Lieutenant Torres sent a team to
the thruster control junction.
At least a half an hour.
JANEWAY: How long?
TUVOK:
Even if thrusters
are repaired,
they won't be of much use
if we sink any deeper.
There must be some way
to disperse it.
from the phaser emitters.
Try a nadion burst
electromagnetic properties
It may weaken the
Aye, Captain.
of the fluid.
to check on Harry and Tom.
I'm on my way to Sickbay
You've got the Bridge.
How are they?
in their environmental suits
Lucky. The backup systems
kept their vital functions
going.
but they'll recover.
It'll take time,
And him?
Aside from his ability
to breathe the rarefied air
on this planet,
he's the exact duplicate
of Mr. Paris.
He even seems to share
his memories,
his winning personality.
not to mention
B'Elanna and I
discovered
mimetic properties.
that the fluid has
it reads the DNA
Somehow,
it comes in contact with
of whatever
and recreates it.
Fascinating.
Can you tell me
who you are?
just let me go back.
Please,
Not until I find out
why two of my crew
duplicated.
have been
you have to believe me.
Captain,
than you do about this.
I don't know any more
I thought I was Tom Paris.
Until he showed up,
A little changed by my
experience on the planet maybe,
but now I don't know who
or what I am.
I have to get off this ship
All I know is that
and go back down
to the surface.
TUVOK: We're ready to try
( comlink beeps )
the nadion burst, Captain.
Do it.
( weapon fires, ship rumbles )
What are you doing?
( groans )
( comlink beeps)
TUVOK: Captain,
we're receiving
an urgent hail.
the one on the surface.
It's from Ensign Kim,
Put him through.
Captain, please!
KIM:
Stop what you're doing!
If you really do have
Harry Kim's memories,
you know that I'm going to do
whatever it takes
to get this ship
back in orbit.
You can't do that!
JANEWAY:
Why not?
I understand it myself.
I... I'm not sure
Well, then you're gonna have
to help me figure it out.
Mr. Tuvok, I'm on my way
to Transporter Room 1.
Erect a level-7 force field
around the platform.
Fill it with atmosphere
from the planet
or rather his duplicate, aboard.
and then beam Mr. Kim,
Aye, Captain.
TUVOK:
( dramatic theme playing )
a lock on him?
Do you have
WOMAN: Yes, ma'am.
Energize.
Release my vessel.
We can't do that.
We?
The planet and I,
we're connected
somehow.
I can't explain it,
Captain.
that you've got to stop.
I only know
And I'm willing
to stop,
but I'll say it again,
release the ship.
No. We need you.
Janeway to Tuvok.
Fire.
( weapon fires, ship rumbles )
( gasping )
What are you?
Stop. No.
I'll fire again.
You're killing us.
You're leaving me
no choice.
It's not fair.
It's wrong!
Janeway to Tuvok...
No!
No, no, no.
Please, no more.
Hold your fire, Tuvok.
Captain, we are continuing
to submerge.
TUVOK:
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
Hold your fire.
I want some answers.
I'm trying to understand.
This is hard for me as well.
a connection to this planet.
You said you have
You talk about it
like it's alive.
Alive?
Yes...
But not the planet.
The silver blood.
The compound that sampled
Harry's DNA...
and created you.
Yes.
But it's never been conscious,
never sentient
Before me and the other.
before now...
Tom Paris.
We're the first.
Don't you see? You came here.
You showed us.
When the compound
came in contact
with Tom and Harry,
it experienced awareness
for the first time.
it was only instinct...
Before,
Sound and light
and heat.
showed us thought.
But those two...
I'm beginning to understand.
This silver blood...
experienced sentience...
And now you want more.
You want to duplicate
the rest of this crew
and populate this planet.
You're trying so hard
to reach home, but...
this can be home.
and not for my people.
Not for me,
why we can't stay here?
Do you understand
I think so.
Well, then release us.
We'd rather die
than be alone.
We deserve life.
that created you...
This silver blood
It duplicated Harry
without killing him.
So you don't need
our bodies...
Only samples of DNA.
Release Voyager...
And I'll speak to my crew.
And if they're willing,
I'll let you duplicate
the rest of us.
TUVOK: Bridge to Janeway.
( comlink beeps )
We're no longer submerging.
We've stopped, Captain.
JANEWAY:
Understood.
We're getting out
of here, Tuvok,
but first, assemble the crew
in Cargo Bay 1,
and have the doctor
meet me there.
Captain...?
I'll explain later.
JANEWAY:
It's time to meet
your new family.
( dramatic theme playing )
All stations report
ready for liftoff.
Code Blue status
confirmed.
TUVOK:
Take us up, Mr. Paris.
JANEWAY:
Aye, Captain.
( engine rumbling )
( triumphant theme playing )